---
title: "Design Phase: CAD Model"
excerpt: ""
layout: splash

header:
    overlay_image:  /assets/images/Velo.jpg
    overlay_color: "#000"
    overlay_filter: "0.1"
    teaser: /assets/images/Velo.jpg
gallery:
  - url: /assets/images/Velomobile/CAD_Fail1.png
    image_path: /assets/images/Velomobile/CAD_Fail1.png
    alt: "CAD Fail 1"
    id: gallery1
  - url: /assets/images/Velomobile/CAD_Fail2.png
    image_path: /assets/images/Velomobile/CAD_Fail2.png
    alt: "CAD Fail 2"
  - url: /assets/images/Velomobile/CAD_Fail3.png
    image_path: /assets/images/Velomobile/CAD_Fail3.png
    alt: "CAD Fail 3"
  - url: /assets/images/Velomobile/CAD_Fail3_detailed.png
    image_path: /assets/images/Velomobile/CAD_Fail3_detailed.png
    alt: "CAD Fail 3 Detailed"
  - url: /assets/images/Velomobile/CAD_Fail4.png
    image_path: /assets/images/Velomobile/CAD_Fail4.png
    alt: "CAD Fail 4"

gallery2:
  - url: /assets/images/Velomobile/CAD_Fail1.png
    image_path: /assets/images/Velo.jpg
    alt: "Real Model"
---

Oh CAD such a useful tool if you know how to use it well. Well I don't, or at least I was a complete novice when I started this project. I have tinkered around in CAD before but I had never made anything that I intended to build or had any real aspirations of making it (well except for my 3D printed wallet + emergency pen phone case that I still may finish some day.)

I had everything setup, dimensions of the trike I intend to buy, hand drawn a few concept drawings, a mental image of what I was trying to achieve, and an internet's worth of pictures of other velomobiles, so I sat down to start. Then I proceeded to obsess over this for a one week period, thankfully I am in between semesters and in between jobs so it's not a big deal. Just a few late nights, an all nighter one night and it was finished. 

There were several iterations and total failures until I figured out the right way of doing it. 

## Some wrong ways: 

Basically all the failed versions were different attempts at trying to put together the skin piece by piece. Here are some of the results:

{% include gallery id="gallery" caption="CAD Fails" %}

# The way that ended up working 

The basic idea was: 

1. Draw an ellipse as wide as the wheel track and 20% longer than the wheel base. 
2. Extrude the ellipse upward to the approximate height of the trike seat (for me that was 65-70 cm.
3. Close the top of the extruded ellipse
4. Create a line of symmetry so all changes to either the left or right side of the figure are mirrored. 
5. Pull open the top so that you create the "cockpit" and back fairing. 
6. Pull the edges / points around until you have the shape you want. 

{% include gallery id="gallery2" caption="Finished CAD Model" %}


Short(ish) video tutorial of how I did it. You can totally fast forward through the parts where I ramble / forget what I was doing.

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/5_i9y2DkxXQ" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>


